Buildings news update - December 22, 2025 Buildings news December 22, 2025 DOB NOW service notices forms bis codes jobs DOB Continues to Get Stuff Done As 2025 and the current Mayoral Administration comes to a close, the Department of Buildings took time to look back on all the agency has accomplished over the past four years. There is so much we are proud of -- more than we could fit here! In 2024, building construction-related incidents and fatalities both dropped to 10-year lows , and in 2025 construction-related incidents and injuries dropped an additional 32 percent through the first 11 months of the year. This improvement in work site safety is due in part to the Site Safety Card SST program , which has led to over 450,000 individuals in the construction industry obtaining at least 40 hours of safety training. We have also made great progress improving the public realm through the Get Sheds Down initiative . Since its launch in 2023, city streets have seen an overall net reduction in total sidewalk sheds of approximately 11%, including hundreds of the oldest sheds in the city. With new enforcement legislation going into effect soon , and new shed designs hitting the street as early as 2026 we are looking to keep this momentum going. DOB continued to improve building safety for everyday New Yorkers by launching the Periodic Inspection of Parking Structures (PIPS) program in 2022, the citywide parapet inspection program in 2024, and our "Project Espo" proactive enforcement team . Read our Press Release for Even More on What We Got Done Getting Workers Home Safe For The Holidays In response to a concerning recent rise in building construction worksite fatalities in 2025, the Department is conducting a new enforcement sweep and educational outreach campaign at constructions sites across the five boroughs. While New York City has seen an seen encouraging decline in worksite injuries down by more than 30 percent citywide compared to last year, we have also seen a rise in worksite fatalities this year. Our message with this sweep is simple - every worker deserves to get home safe to their family this holiday season. DOB personnel have been out in the field conducting unannounced inspections at worksites throughout the city, checking for code-compliant conditions, and handing out educational flyers that reinforce critical safety practices. Looking ahead, beginning on January 1, 2026, DOB will be implementing a new policy limiting the number of work sites that can be primarily overseen by a Construction Superintendent to just one at a time. This change means that the primary individual responsible for safety on work sites is not dividing their attention between multiple locations. Read Our Construction Superintendent Service Notice Council Passes Existing Building Code Last week, the New York City Council passed legislation to establish a New York City Existing Building Code (EBC), a major step in updating the city's construction regulations. This new Code was developed by the DOB over the course of an extensive, multi-year code revision process. Once implemented, the new Code will make significant changes to streamline regulations for construction projects at existing buildings. Read Our Press Release Find Out More About the Existing Building Code Local Law 11 Study Released Last week, DOB released the first-ever comprehensive study of the city's Façade Inspection & Safety Program (FISP), which is also known as "Local Law 11" inspections. The study utilizes evidence-based building science to inform recommend improvements to the current façade inspection requirements. This study, which was spearheaded by engineering firm Thornton Tomasetti highlights recommended changes that could potentially reduce the need for some sidewalk sheds without negatively impacting public safety. DOB is now developing updated FISP rules and a comprehensive industry guide to ensure consistent standards, enhance safety, reduce compliance-related costs, and reduce unnecessary sidewalk sheds. Read the Report Find out More About the City's Façade Safety Regulations Investigation Report on 2023 Crane Collapse Earlier this month, DOB released the city's investigation report into a major tower crane collapse that occurred in Midtown Manhattan in the summer of 2023. This comprehensive investigatory report is the result of a multi-year effort to determine how this incident occurred, conducted in coordination with our agency partners at the NYC Department of Investigation and a team of engineering subject matter experts led by consulting firm Gilsanz Murray Steficek (GMS). The report is being made available to the public in the interest of promoting greater transparency for the construction industry and for all New Yorkers. As a result of this investigation, DOB now mandates new fire safety requirements for tower cranes that have been implemented citywide. Read Our Press Release Watch CBS New York's Story on The Investigation End the Year Inspection Reports This is your last reminder in 2025 from the Department that periodic inspection reports for certain properties are due by the end of the year! DOB enforces several local city laws that requires various elements of a building to be inspected by a contracted industry professional on a periodic basis, with the resulting inspection reports submitted to DOB for our review. An owner's failure to submit these required reports will lead to enforcement actions issued by DOB. Certain buildings around the city have until December 31 to submit periodic inspection reports for their elevators, boilers, parking structures, retaining walls, and gas piping systems. Find Out More Information About Retaining Wall Inspections Find out More About the Parking Structures Inspections Find out More About Elevator Inspections Find out More About Boiler Inspections Find out More About Gas Piping Inspections Local Law 97 Deadline is Here The deadline for building owners to submit their calendar year 2024 Local Law 97 emissions reports is just days away! December 31 is the final deadline for covered building owners to submit these compliance reports, as well as the Local Law 88 Lighting System Upgrades & Sub-metering reports. When a property owner enters onto a compliance pathway and invests money back into their building, it sets them up to reduce carbon emissions, promote energy efficiency, lower energy costs, and improve occupant comfort. Property owners in need of assistance can contact NYC Accelerator for free, personalized, technical guidance on energy efficiency upgrades and carbon reduction strategies. Find out More About Local Law 97 Reach out to NYC Accelerator Energy Letter Grades Are Now Available Your building's sustainability report card just dropped! The 2025 Energy efficiency scores for buildings that benchmark their energy and water use are now public, as required by Local Law 33 of 2018. The label includes the 1-100 ENERGY STAR® score and corresponding A-D letter grade to give New Yorkers a snapshot of a building's energy performance compared to similar buildings. These letter grades provide an easy to understand level of transparency on how our city's largest buildings stack up when it comes to energy efficiency. If your building is covered under Local Law 33, don't forget that grades must be posted at the entrance in a visible location by the end of the year. Read Our Service Notice Access your grade on DOB NOW Public Portal. More information about Energy Grades New NYC Energy Code Taking Effect NYC has adopted the 2025 Energy Conservation Code, providing new baselines for building energy performance in New York City. Enforcement of the 2025 NYCECC won't start until updated compliance software is available. Until then, DOB will continue enforcing the 2020 NYCECC. More details on compliance timing, requirements and guidance materials will be posted on our website as the effective date approaches. Become a DOB Scholar Do you know a young New Yorker who is considering a career in the construction industry? DOB is seeking college and trade schools students to join our Scholars Program, to help prepare them to become the next generation of builders and construction professionals. Running from February through April next year, our DOB Scholars Program is a free, in-person educational program where student participants will have the opportunity to network with peers, connect with DOB professionals, and learn about a variety of career pathways within the agency. Together, program participants will learn about topics from DOB professionals in areas such as: The NYC Constructions Codes for designing and compliance, as well as DOB initiatives related to sustainability, engineering, construction Safety, and emergency response. The application period for interested students closes on Friday, December 26. If you know a student who would be interested in the program, please encourage them to apply today by sharing the link below. Apply to the DOB Scholars Program Service Updates New Construction Superintendent Limitations Begin January 1, 2026 – Local Law 149 of 2021 Requirements Violations for Failure to Submit Gas Piping System Periodic Inspection Certification for Cycle 2, Sub-cycle A AEUHAZ Violations, Civil Penalty Payments, and Challenges to Launch in DOB NOW: Safety Follow up #1: Façade Inspection and Safety Program (FISP) Cycle 10 Certificates of Correction to Launch in DOB NOW: Safety Deadline to Submit an Energy Efficiency Report (EER) Pursuant to Local Law 87 (LL87) Moved to March 31, 2026 Follow-up #1: Deadline Moved to December 31, 2025, for Building Owners Required to Post Building Energy Efficiency Rating Label (E-Grade) Electrical Firm Accounts with Balances Subject to Action Amended Plans where Substantial Re-Examination is Required Changes to Illuminated Signs Previously Filed in BIS must be Filed in DOB NOW Deadline to Post Building Energy Efficiency Rating Label (E-Grade) Moved to December 31, 2025 Ancillary Dwelling Units to be Filed in DOB NOW All Department Service Updates DOB NOW Updates We are regularly making improvements to the DOB NOW Public Portal, adding new functionality to the online filing portal. Among the latest updates, DOB has recently added Certificate of Correction (COC) requests to DOB NOW. As of December 15, 2025, all COC requests are now required to be submitted in DOB NOW: Safety . COC requests that were previously submitted in DOB NOW: BIS Options before this launch will continue in BIS Options. Read the Service Notice Find Out More About DOB NOW Visit the DOB NOW Public Portal Electrical Code Important Reminder! The New York City 2025 Electrical Code ( Local Law 128 of 2024 ) takes full effect on December 21, 2025. Find out more about the 2025 Electrical Code on our website . Hearings + Rules 1 RCNY 34-04 Repeal of Rules Relating to the Electrical Code (Definitions) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 34-06 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Electrical Code Revision and Interpretation Committee) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 34-07 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Electrical Code Advisory Committee) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 35-01 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Designation of Private Agencies to Perform Electrical Inspections in the City of New York) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 35-02 Repeal of Rules Relating to the Electrical Code (Payment of Fees for Certificates of Electrical Inspection) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 36-01 Repeal of Rules Relating to the Electrical Code (Evaluation of Educational Experience of Applicants for Electrical Contractor Licenses) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 36-02 Repeal of Rules Relating to the Electrical Code (Impact of Periods of Unemployment upon Applications for Electrician's License) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 101-12 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (The Office of Technical Certification and Research and the Use of Material in Construction Activities) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 101-14 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Categories of Work that May or May not Require a Permit) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 102-01 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Violation Classification and Certification of Correction.) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 103-04 Amendment of Rules relating to Parking Structure Compliance Reports and Façade Inspection Reports (Periodic Inspection of Exterior Walls and Appurtenances of Buildings) Promulgated Effective Date 01/03/2026 1 RCNY 103-10 Amendment of Rules relating to Gas Piping Inspections (Periodic Inspection of Gas Piping System) Promulgated Effective Date 01/03/2026 1 RCNY 104-01 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (License Qualifications) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 104-26 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Deactivation of License) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 4000-01 Amendment of Rules relating to Electrical Code (Electrical Work Review) Promulgated Effective Date 12/21/2025 1 RCNY 7011-01 Rules relating to Safety Standards for Refrigeration Public Hearing: 01/05/2026 @ 11:00AM All Department Rules Buildings Bulletins 2025-014 : This Bulletin clarifies the 'Host' emissions deduction for off-site energy storage and provides an alternate methodology for calculating the 'Off-taker' deduction for both off-site and on-site energy storage systems. All Buildings Bulletins Local Laws Plumbing Work Local Law 142 of 2025 (Intro 429-A of 2024) A local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to the scope of gas piping systems inspections, ordinary plumbing work, reestablishing the plumbing and fire suppression piping contractor license board, emergency work, and seizure. Rooftop Activity Complaints Local Law 125 of 2025 (Intro 422-A of 2024) A local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to requiring the commissioner of information technology and telecommunications to create a separate 311 category for rooftop activity complaints and to require the commissioner of buildings to report annually regarding certain rooftop spaces. All DOB-Related Local Laws Code Notes DOB Code Notes covers an array of construction projects for both residential and commercial properties. Each Code Note explains the necessary filings, applicable codes and zoning, relevant bulletins, directives and memos for some of the most applied for construction projects in New York City. Check Out Our Code Notes Construction Advisories Construction Advisory are official messages from the Department of Buildings to homeowners, building maintenance staff, construction personnel and others addressing safety issues and best practices in NYC construction. Check Out Our Construction Advisories Enforcement Bulletins DOB publishes monthly bulletins detailing the agency's efforts to sanction and deter bad actors in the construction industry. You can find this information posted on the Enforcement Action Bulletin page of our website. Additional Disciplinary Actions & Voluntary Surrenders Upcoming Events Throughout the year DOB holds in person and virtual events for industry professionals and members of the public. From "Buildings After Hours", our live Q&A sessions, and virtual industry meetings, there are multiple opportunities every month to meet with DOB. Check out our List of Upcoming Events DOB is Hiring The Department of Buildings is actively looking for construction professionals and other dedicated New Yorkers to join our ranks. Check out our jobs page to see what openings we have at the agency. Apply for Open Positions at DOB Learn More About Careers at DOB comments + suggestions | unsubscribe | manage your email preferences